Teflo Output
=============

Data Folder
-----------

When you call teflo, all runtime files, logs, artifacts, etc get stored
within a data folder. By default teflo sets the base data folder as the */tmp*
directory. This can be overridden by either the command line option or
within the *teflo.cfg*. Each teflo run creates a unique data folder for that
specific run. This unique data folder is stored at the parent data folder
mentioned above. With having this unique data folder per teflo run. It allows
you to keep those logs for that specific run for historical purposes. These
unique data folders are based on a UUID. You must be thinking, how can I
reference a data folder to my given run? To help easily find the last execution
data folder, teflo provides an additional folder for easily accessing this. At
the end of each teflo run, a new directory named *.results* will be created at
the data folder you supplied to teflo. This directory is a exact copy of the
data folder for the last given teflo run. It allows you to easily access the
last runs files.

Results File
------------

Each time you call teflo, you supply it a scenario descriptor file. This file
tells teflo exactly what it should do. After teflo finishes running the task
it was supplied with it needs to potentially update the scenario descriptor
file with additional information from that given run. Instead of modifying the
input file, teflo creates a new scenario descriptor file (an exact copy of the
input one) just with additional information from the run. For example: the
provision task finishes and has additional data about the host machines created.
The results file would include this additional data returned back from the
provision task. This file is stored in the data folder *.results* directory
named *{scenario descriptor file name without file extension}_results.yml*. 
This allows users to continue executing teflo tasks if run individually.
It eliminates the need for restarting the entire scenario
from the beginning.

Below is an example emphasizing on the additional data added back to the
scenario descriptor file after a successful provision task run:

.. code-block:: bash
  :emphasize-lines: 7,13,14

  ...
  name: ffdriver
  provider:
    credential: openstack
    flavor: m1.small
    floating_ip_pool: <definied ip pool>
    hostname: ffdriver_l3zqh
    image: rhel-7.5-server-x86_64-released
    keypair: pit-jenkins
    name: openstack
    networks:
    - pit-jenkins
    node_id: 4beb3789-1e61-4f7c-bf9e-722ed480b280
  ip_address: 10.8.249.2
  ...

Included Scenario Results File
------------------------------

If *include* section is present in the scenario file and it has a valid scenario descriptor
file, then on a teflo run there will be an additional results file for this included 
scenario with its filename(without file extension) in the prefix. e.g. common_results.yml
will be the name of the results file for included scenario with file name common.yml. This allows
the users to use this common_results.yml file and include it in other scenarios as needed,
reducing the execution time and code duplication. The included scenario results file is
also located in the .results folder where results.yml is stored

Results Folder
--------------

As mentioned above in the `data folder <output.html#data-folder>`_ section,
at the end of each teflo run a *.results* directory is created with the latest
results for a given run. You will find a variety of directories/files here.
Lets go over some of the common ones you will see.

.. note::

  Each teflo task can produce different files that will be archived in the
  results directory. For example: when running the orchestrate task you would
  see an inventory directory created along with an ansible log. During the
  execute task you would see a directory for artifacts containing results
  produced from automated test suites.

.. code-block:: none

  .results/
  ├── artifacts
  │   ├── client-a
  │   │   ├── suite1_results.xml
  │   │   └── suite2_results.xml
  │   └── client-b
  │       ├── suite1_results.xml
  │       └── suite2_results.xml
  ├── inventory
  │   └── master
  ├── logs
  │   ├── ansible_executor
  │   │   └── ansible.log
  │   └── ansible_orchestrator
  │       └── ansible.log
  └── <scenaio_filename_without_file_extension>_results.yml



.. list-table::
    :widths: auto
    :header-rows: 1

    *   - Name
        - Description
        - Type

    *   - artifacts
        - A directory containing all artifacts generated by the given tests
          stored in sub directories named by the test machine they were fetched
          from.
        - Directory

    *   - inventory
        - A directory where all ansible inventory files are stored for the
          given run.
        - Diretory

    *   - logs
        - A directory where all log files are stored from the run. Logs here
          consist of teflo runtime logs, ansible logs, etc.
        - Directory

    *   - ansible_orchestrator
        - The directory under logs directory where ansible logs related to
          orchestrate actionsare stored
        - Directory

    *   - ansible_executor
        - The directory under logs directory where ansible logs related to
          execute tasks are stored
        - Directory

    *   - <scenaio_filename_without_file_extension>_results.yml
        - The updated scenario descriptor file(s) (created by teflo). This file
          can be used to pick up where you left off with teflo. You can easily
          run another task with this given file. It removes the need from
          starting a whole run over from the beginning.
        - File

